---
title: Byzantine Agreement Made Trivial
header-img: "img/postcover/post02.jpg"
categories: [A paper note]
layout: post
---
- index
{:toc #markdown-toc}
# Lectures

Agreement: b is agreed at the end of rounds. 

Consistency: b is agreed at the beginning.

Protocol Process
$$
Q_{r} = H(R, r)
$$
R is the random quantity, r is the round number.

- Receive b and SIG(Q) at the rounds r-1, goal is to 
  - Reach agreement at the end of round with prob >1/3
  - Remaining agreement if in agreement. 
- If number(0) > 2n/3 then $b_i^r = 0$
- if number > 2n/3 then $b_i^r = 1 $
- Else, $rand_r = min H(SIG_j(Q_r))$



# Introduction

## Background & Motivation

Cryptographic currencies enable new applications such as smart contracts and fair protocols. It also avoids trusted centralized authorities.

## Gap

However, current proposals suffer from a **trade-off between latency and confidence.** 

- Achieving high confidence requires an hour-long wait ( An hour to confirm a transaction in Bitcoin, wait for six bocks; Otherwise, there are double-spending problems. )
- It achieves 1 MByte block of transactions in 22 seconds with 50,000 users.

## Goal

This paper presents Algorand, a new cryptocurrency designed to confirm **transactions on the order of one minute.** It mainly relies on the BA protocol, BASTAR, to reach a consensus on a new block with low latency and without the possibility of forks. 

**Highlights**

- Proof of Stake based Cryptocurrency 
- High throughput: ~1 min to confirm transactions vs an hour in Bitcoin
- Public ledger with **low probability of forks**
- Assumes 2/3-honest stake majority

## Challenge

- Avoid Sybil attacks
- Be able to scale to millions of users.
- Be resilient to denial-of-service attacks. 

## Solutions Overview

- **Weighted users:** 
  - Assign a weight to each user; As long as the majority weighted fraction of the users is honest, consensus can be reached. (avoid fork and double-spending)
  - **To prevent Sybil attacks.**
- **Consensus by committee** 
  - Select a subset of users as committee
  - **Ensure good scalability.** 
- **Cryptographic sortition:** 
  - Each system user independently determines if they are chosen to be on the committee by computing a function VRF. 
  - **Non-interactive  => to prevent an adversary from targeting committee members.** 
- **Participant replacement**
  - Each user only speaks once.





