---
title: The Google File System
header-img: "img/postcover/post02.jpg"
categories: [A paper note]
layout: post
---

# Introduction

The paper presents file system interface design to support distributed applications, and also discusses many aspects of the design.

The files system cluster has been used in: 

1. **Hundreds of terabytes** of storage 
2. Across thousands of disks on **thousand** of machines. 
3. Accessed by **hundreds** of clients.

The GFS has good **performance, scalability, reliability, and availability**. And it is also designed based on the following points

1. Component **failures are the norm**.  Such as failure caused by application bugs, operating system bugs, human errors, etc.
2. Files are huge by traditional standards. **Multi-GB files** are common. 
3. Most are **append-only data** rather than overwriting existing data.
4. Co-design the application and file system API to increase flexibility. Eg.
   - It relaxed GFS' **consistency** model to simplify the file system without imposing a burden on the application.
   - Introduce **atomic append operation.** Multiple clients can append concurrently **without extra synchronization**.

# Design Overview

## Assumptions

1. The system is built on inexpensive machines which often fail.
2. Should store a modest number of large files, A few million files with 100 MB.
3. Supports workloads include
   - Large streaming reads: Each request reads **hundreds of KBs**
   - Small random reads: Few KBs at the arbitrary offset.
4. The system only focuses on sequential writes. While small writing is less efficient. 
5. The system must efficiently support **multiple clients concurrently append to the same file.**
6. High sustained bandwidth is more important than low latency. Most applications require processing data in bulk at a high rate. And they don't require a fast response time.

## Interface

Supports create, delete, open, close, read, and write operations. 

Also has snapshot, and record appends operations.

1. Snapshot: creates a copy of a file or a directory tree at a low cost. 
2. Record appends: Allows multiple clients to append data atomicity.

## Architecture

Single master



