---
title: Algorand Scaling Byzantine Agreements for Cryptocurrencies
header-img: "img/postcover/post02.jpg"
categories: [A paper note]
layout: post
---
- index
{:toc #markdown-toc}

# Introduction
## Background & Motivation

Cryptographic currencies enable new applications such as smart contracts and fair protocols. It also avoids trusted centralized authorities.

## Gap

However, current proposals suffer from a **trade-off between latency and confidence.** 

- Achieving high confidence requires an hour-long wait ( An hour to confirm a transaction in Bitcoin, wait for six bocks; Otherwise, there are double-spending problems. )
- It achieves 1 MByte block of transactions in 22 seconds with 50,000 users.

## Goal

This paper presents Algorand, a new cryptocurrency designed to confirm **transactions on the order of one minute.** It mainly relies on the BA protocol, BASTAR, to reach a consensus on a new block with low latency and without the possibility of forks. 

## Challenge

- Avoid Sybil attacks
- Be able to scale to millions of users.
- Be resilient to denial-of-service attacks. 

## Solutions Overview

- **Weighted users:** 
  - Assign a weight to each user; As long as the majority weighted fraction of the users is honest, consensus can be reached. (avoid fork and double-spending)
  - **To prevent Sybil attacks.**
- **Consensus by committee** 
  - Select a subset of users as committee
  - **Ensure good scalability.** 
- **Cryptographic sortition:** 
  - Each system user independently determines if they are chosen to be on the committee by computing a function VRF. 
  - **Non-interactive  => to prevent an adversary from targeting committee members.** 
- **Participant replacement**
  - Each user only speaks once.

# Protocol summary

**POW**

- Wait for six blocks to confirm one tx due to the possibility of forks.

**Byzantine consensus**

- Requires a fixed set of servers to be determined ahead of time; allowing anyone to join could open up to Sybil's attacks. 
- It cannot scale to a large set of users.
- Some optimization protocols: BFT2F, Honey Badger, Bitcoin-NG, Hybrid consensus, ByzCoin, and Stellar.

**POS**

- Avoid the computation overhead of POW.
- Hard to realize. Since no work is involved in generating blocks, a malicious leader can attack. 
- Some optimization protocols: Ouroboros, 

**Trees and DAGs**

- Replace the underlying chain structured ledger with a tree or DAG.

- GHOST, SPECTRE, Meshcash 

# Technique details

## Goal and Assumptions

**Assumptions:**

- Public-key signatures and hash functions. 
- Honest users run bug-free software.
- The fraction of money held by honest users is above some threshold (a constant greater than 2/3)
- An adversary can corrupt targeted users, but an adversary cannot corrupt many users that hold a significant fraction of the money.

**Goals:**

- Liveness: Make progress under various network reachability.
  - Achieved by assuming strong synchrony; 95% of honest users can communicate with time-bound; no network partition. 
- Safety: If an honest user accepts one tx A, then all tx accepted by others will be in the log containing A
  - Achieved by assuming weak synchrony; the network can be asynchronous in a long bound time; 

## Overview

Each user submits a tx to **gossip protocol** and then collects a **block of pending Txs** they hear about.

- Gossip protocol: Each user selects a small random set of peers to gossip messages to. And the message is signed using PK to prevent it from being forged.

Then it uses BASTAR to reach a consensus on **one of those blocks.** 

BASTAR can produce two kinds of consensus:

- Final consensus: Once a block reaches the final consensus, all Txs are confirmed. 
- Tentative consensus:
  - When the network is strongly synchronous, one successor block will eventually reach a final consensus.
  - When the network is weakly synchronous, the fork may happen. Algorand periodically invokes BASTAR to reach a consensus on which fork should be used.

## CRYPTOGRAPHIC SORTITION



## Block Proposal

## BASTAR

## ALGORAND

# Evaluation









