---
title: Streamlet: Textbook Streamlined Blockchains
header-img: "img/postcover/post02.jpg"
categories: [A paper note]
layout: post
---

# Introduction

Many works (RAFT, Zyzzyva, The ABCDs of Paxos, etc ) aims to simplify the PBFT/Paxos family of protocols, but they have complicated recovery path when there is malicious behavior.

The paper tries to propose a simple, permissioned consensus protocol - Streamlet. 

# Execution Model

## Assumptions

1. All processes/participants' public keys are well-known (i.e., the classical “permissioned” setting).
2. Processes/participants have local clocks and run in synchronized monotonic epochs of 1 second each. ( 1 sec > 1 roundtrip).
3. Each epoch has a random leader. 
4. Honest participants are at least 2/3, and malicious participants are less than 1/3.
5. Liveness requires periods of synchrony while consistency doesn't need this. 
   - Periods of synchrony are modeled with the standard Global Stabilization Time (GST) approach: When an honest participant sends a message in round $r$, then an honest recipient is guaranteed to receive it by the beginning of round $max(GST, r+\\theta)$,
6. All parties in partial synchronization model, where message delay up to $\\theta(x)$.

## Definition

**Notarized**: When a block gain votes from at least 2n/3 distinct participants, it becomes notarized. A chain is notarized if its constituent blocks are all notarized. 

**Finalize**: If in a notarized chain, there are three adjacent blocks with consecutive epoch numbers, the prefix of the chain up to the second of the three blocks is considered final. When a block becomes final, all of its prefixes must be final too.

## Provable guarantees

1. **Consistency:** 
   - For any two blockchains considered final by honest participants, then one chain must be either the same as another or is a prefix of another.
   - Consistency is guaranteed no matter what network delays or partitioning.
2. **Liveness:** 
   - If an honest participant receives some transactions in round r, those transactions will **eventually** be included in all honest participant's finalized chains. 
   - With expected constant confirmation delay during the period of synchrony.

## Protocol

Protocol run in rounds, 

At the beginning of epoch e:

​	1. Each epoch has a designated leader chosen at random by a publicly hash function. 

​	2. Each leader proposes a new block extending from the **longest notarized chain** it has seen.

​	3. During epoch e, each participant votes for ( sign with private key ) the proposed block iff

​		It is extended from one of the longest notarized chains that the participant has seen. 

​		It is the first proposal received at epoch e. 

​	4. After voting, the participant then sends it to everyone. 

On seeing three adjacent blocks in a notarized blockchain with consecutive epoch numbers, a participant can finalize the second of the three blocks and its entire prefix chain. 

# Consistency

The consistencies prove it relies on two Lemmas.

**Lemma 1** proves that at each epoch, there is only one notarized block in the honest view. Further, it shows the conflicting block notarized at the same length as block N must have an epoch number either greater than N+1 or smaller than N-1. 

**Lemma 2** proves that if one honest participant sees a notarized chain with three adjacent blocks with consecutive epoch numbers, then the middle block doesn't have a conflicting version which is also notarized in the honest view. 

Finally, the **consistency theorem** (theorem 3) is satisfied. 

Note: consistency doesn't need a synchronization model. As long as the system can make progress, then consistency can be eventually achieved. While the system requires a period of synchrony to make progress, thus liveness requires a partial synchronization model.

# Liveness

## Theorem

The liveness prove is replies on three facts and one Lemma. 

Below we record the block proposed at epoch e+i as Bi.

**Fact 1** emphasizes that if a message is observed by one honest participant at round r, then it will be observed by all honest nodes will observe it at the beginning of $max(GST, r+\\theta)$,

**Fact 2** emphasizes if a notarization block is observed by some honest participant, then a notarized chain ending at that block will be observed by all honest participants in bounded time. 

**Fact 3** emphasizes that after GST, the height of the block proposed by the leader at the later epoch (e+1) is greater or equal to that proposed by the leader at the earlier epoch. (e)

**Lemma 5** proves that after GST, if there are **three consecutive epochs** all with an honest leader, then 

	1. Each honest participant can observe a notarized chain ending at the B2 at the beginning of the e+3  
	1. no conflicting block with the same length as B2 can get notarized in honest view. 

Finally, Liveness Theorem 6 is proposed: **After GST**, if there are **5 consecutive epochs** (e to e+4) with the honest leader, then by the beginning of the **5-th epoch**, all honest participants must observe a **new final block** which is **not final at the beginning of the first epoch e**. 

Theorem 6 can be proved by the fact that for every 5 blocks, the **last 3 are consecutive and unique**. Specifically:

1. At the beginning of epoch e+5, B2, B3, and B4 are notarized in the honest participant's view. 
2. B2, B3, and B4 **cannot** have been notarized in honest view before the beginning of epoch e
3. No conflicting blocks can be notarized in honest view at the same length as B2, B3, and B4.

4. B3 must extend from B2, similarly, B4 must extend from B3. 
5. Finalize rule makes sure the blockchain ending at B3 is a new final chain. 

According to the paper, an intuitive understanding is that the honest leader will undo the damage caused by the previous corrupt leader, and then use three epochs to finalize the chain ending at the block notarized at the second epoch. 

## Example illustration



