---
title: Hybrid In Database Inference for Declarative Information Extraction
header-image: "img/postcover/post02.jpg"
categories: [A paper note]
layout: post
---
- index
{:toc #markdown-toc}

# Summary
This paper proposes a way to integrate the MCMC and Gibbs sampling algorithm using SQL language. Further, it analyzes those models with some characterizations and proposes a rule to choose the different algorithms for different documents in a single query. 

# Introduction

## Background & Motivation

In-database inference offers significant speed-up.

## Gap

Existing work can only deal with simple CPF models, not non-linear ones such as skip-chain CRF models.

## Goal

This paper tries to **explore the in-database implementation** of a few inference algorithms, such as MCMC, Gibbs, and MCMC-MH.

# Details

Implement various algorithms and identify a set of parameters and rules for choosing inference algorithms.

## MCMC algorithm:

Using some UDF can implement the MCMC. But it iteratively calls UDF a million times, leading to a slow process.

The paper tries to re-implement the MCMC such that one query can finish all iterations.

## Model Selection based on model.

The paper model the characterizations of a few algorithms and then propose a set of rules to choose from among various inference algorithms.

## Hybrid Inference

Then the paper shows the inference algorithm choice is not only model-dependent but also query and text-dependent. Thus it uses a hybrid approach to choose the different algorithms for different documents in a single query. 





