---
title: PostgresqlML
header-image: "img/postcover/post02.jpg"
categories: [A paper note]
layout: post
---

# Some key points

## LLM on PostgreSQL

260GB Model => Store on RAM. Dynamically load to RAM for inference?

Bandwidth between RAM and CPU often becomes a bottleneck for performing inference with these models 
=> One way to reduce the amount of RAM and memory bandwidth needed is to use a smaller datatype,  like 16-bit floating point numbers, which would reduce the model size in RAM by half.

# Connection Pool

It uses PgBouncer to enable multiple clients to connect to single server.

# Compare with MindsDB

It uses PgCat to distribute workloads across many PostgreSQL, and it supports distributed inference.

PostgresML runs ML algorithms inside the database itself. It shares memory with the database, and **can access data directly**, using pointers to avoid the serialization and networking overhead that frequently dominates data hungry machine learning applications.

# PostgresML inference faster than Python?

## Metrics

Throughput/latency/memory usage.

## Baselines

Python ML service + Redis on same machine.

- TP/Latency Overhead: 
  - ML serviece fetch and deserialize Redis data
  - ML service serialize as JSON, and sent via HTTP to client.

Python ML service + Redis separated by network.

PostgresML

- fetches data from a Postgres table, which already comes in a standard floating point format, and the Rust inference layer forwards it to XGBoost via a pointer.
- Postgres isn't very good at handling more concurrent active connections than CPU threads. To mitigate this, we introduced PgBouncer (a Postgres proxy and pooler) in front of the database, and the throughput increased back up, and continued to hold as we went to 100 clients.
- As for the memory usage
  - In inference,  PostgresML uses Rust, and Python is known for using more memory than more optimized languages and, in this case, it uses **7 times** more than PostgresML.
  - In training, Python ML service uses 8GB memory to preprocess data. 
  - PostgresML is a PostgreSQL extension, and it shares RAM with the database server. Postgres is very efficient at fetching and allocating only the memory it needs: it reuses `shared_buffers` and `OS page cache` to store rows for inference, and requires very little to no memory allocation to serve queries.

# Scalability

It sync primary to many replicas with each handling inference requests.

It also uses PgCat to distribute the requests to multiple replicas.









