---
title: Balanced Byzantine Reliable Broadcast with Near-Optimal Communication and Improved Computation
header-image: "img/postcover/post02.jpg"
categories: [A paper note]
layout: post
---

# Introduction

The paper studies **Byzantine reliable broadcast** under async networks, and imporve existing work from those aspects:

- Near-optimal communication cost: It proposes two new BRB protocols for n nodes and input M that has comm cost O(nM + n^2logn) 

  - 1st uses threshold signature

  - 2nd uses error-free

- Improved Computation: 

  - avoid the online error correction on the input msg

- Balanced communication: balanced multicast which balance the comm cost for BRB

  - **broadcaster** needs to **multicast the message M** 
    while other needs to **multicast coded fragments of size O(M/n + logn)**

## Background

- **Reliable Broadcast:** The goal of reliable broadcast is to have a designated broadcaster send its input message and to have all nodes output the same message.
- **Byzantine Relable Broadcast:** Byzantine faults that may deviate arbitrarily from the protocols
  - Imporvement History: 
    Bracha -> Cachin and Tessaro -> Patra
  - Balanced comm cost: 
    In all of these BRB protocols, every node, including the broadcaster, **incurs the same asymptotic communication cost**. Here on, we say such a BRB protocol has a balanced communication cost.
- Limitation of the SOTA RBR protocols
  - SOTA cannot reduce the **comm cost to the lower bound**
  - **Unbalanced** communicatin cost: 
    - Bracha and Cachin/Tessare achieve balanced commmunication cost
    - SOTA RBR have unbalanced comm cost, broadcaster is around n times higher than other nodes => bottlenect at the broadcaster. (broadcaster sends M to all others, while each other node only communicate O(M/n + logn)) messages.
    - Thus, it requires to design a balanced and neral optimal communication for each node.
  - Inefficiency in **computation**
    - online error correction (OEC) algorithm introduce the extra computation (such as Reed Solomon codes)
    - whether we can improve the computation cost of Das, Xiang, and Ren [21] while preserving the same communication cost?

## Contributions

- Balanced multicast: balance the communication cost of any BRB protocols.
  - All the nodes incur the same cost of O( |M| + nlogn)
  - Main techniques: use an additional round of interaction between nodes to help them reconstruct the input message of the broadcaster without having the broadcaster to directly send the input to all nodes.
  - With this, **existing unbalanced comm BRB can be made balanced** by replacing the multicast of M with our balanced multicast in a black-box manner.
- Improved computations
  - replace error correcting codes with erasure codes as much as possible.
- Near optimal communication
  - ?

# System Model

Assumption

- Malicious corrupt up to t nodes.
- Arbitrarily delay any message but must **eventually** deliver all messages sent **between honest nodes**.
- |S| size of set S
- Async rounds: protocol runs in 푅 asynchronous rounds if its running time is at most R **times the maximum message delay** between honest parties during the execution
- Phase: consists of a fixed number of rounds.

## Problem Formulation

Reliable Broadcast: 

- **Agreement**: If an honest node outputs M' and another node outputs M'', then M' == M''
- **Validity**: If the broadcaster is honest, all honest nodes eventually output the message M.
- **Totality**: if an honest node outputs a message, then every honest node eventaully outputs a message.

## Metrics

Communication

- Communication Cost:  Total communication cost measures the **total number of bits** sent by all honest nodes during the execution of the protocol.
- Per-node Communication Cost: It measures the number of bits sent by P. 
  We say the protocol has **per-node communication cost of C**, if **every honest node has communication cost at most C**.
- We say a protocol has **balanced communication**, if the per-node communication cost is **O(C/n)** where C is the total communication cost of the protocol; otherwise, the protocol is unbalanced.







