---
title: The MADlib Analytics Library or MAD Skills, the SQL
header-image: "img/postcover/post02.jpg"
categories: [A paper note]
layout: post

---

- index
{:toc #markdown-toc}



# Summary

This paper proposes a way to integrate the MCMC and Gibbs sampling algorithm using SQL language. Further, it analyzes those models with some characterizations and proposes a rule to choose the different algorithms for different documents in a single query. 

# Introduction

This paper introduces Madlib, a library of analytics that can be installed and executed within a relational database engine that supports SQL.

# Architecture

There are two challenges in architectural design:

- **In macro:**  How to partition data into chunks that can fit in single node memory and can be orchestrated in movement between nodes.
- **In micro:**  How to invoke efficient linear algebra routines on the data it got.

## Programming model

### Macro program:

It provides UDA to do the aggregation like map-reduce. It also inloves the chunk level aggregation.

### Micro program:

It invokes single-node code to perform arithmetic, such as dense matrix operations, on single-node chunks.

The paper writes its own sparse matrix library since the standard math library doesn't handle math lib well.

## Implementation

It implements an abstract layer that provides three functionality.

- Type bridging

  The mapping of C++ types and methods => database types and methods.

- Resource management shims

  The abstract layer's the memory allocation/deallocation, exception handling, and system signal passing.

- Math library integration

  The abstract layer incorporating third-party libs makes writing correct and performant code easy.

