title: State Management in Apache Flink
header-image: "img/postcover/post02.jpg"
categories: [A paper note]

layout: post
---
- index
{:toc #markdown-toc}
# Introduction

## Background & Motivation

**State:**

- In data-driven applications, states are separated from the application.
- The state can be stored in DB for data consistency and scalability. And the DB is shared among all apps.
- The state can be shared among applications and stored in DB. And rely on the database for data consistency and scalability, among others.

**Stream processing:** It is a natural paradigm for event-driven applications that need to react fast to real-world events and communicate with each other via message passing.

## GAP

Existing stream processing mainly focus on producing real-time but approximate results, which will be corrected by more reliable periodic batch compute jobs.

## Challenges

Challenges for the stateful streaming systems.

- Lack of explicit computational state abstractions.
- The transaction with external storage (which manages the states) is the bottleneck.
- Scaling in/out requires operational challenges.

ShortCome of existing works

- Spark sacrifices programming model transparency and processing latency by enforcing batch-centric application logic.
- Others use transactional per-record processing.

## Goal

This paper presents a **complete, continuous state management solution** based on distributed snapshots.

- Distributed snapshots enable rollback recovery of arbitrary distributed processes to a prior globally consistent execution state.

This paper tries to pipeline the snapshotting process in weakly connected graphs and skip the in-transit records when possible.

# Global SnapShot

Lamport's protocol can only be used for strongly connected directed graphs, where each edge has a direction. 
But in weakly connected graphs, the edge may not have a direction. Thus, the protocol cannot be terminated.

Naiad's two-phase commit, IBM Stream's multi-stage snapshotting, could complete the snapshots but with unnecessary in-transit records logging.

# Model

Managed States:

- Keyed-State: 
  - any record can be mapped to a key space.
  - The state has many types for various operations, such as ListState, ValueState, MapState, and ReduceState.
- Operator-State:

Partitioning and Allocation

- Decouple key space and state space similar to Dynamo.









