---
title: AI Meets Database AI4DB and DB4AI
header-image: "img/postcover/post02.jpg"
categories: [A paper note]
layout: post
---

- index
{:toc #markdown-toc}


# Introduction

The paper introduce the DB4AI and AI4DB problems and open questions.

# DB4AI

Problem of DB AI seperations:

- Require engineer skills to define the complete execution logic
- Load/export data is costly.
- SQL lacks some complex processing patterns.

## Declarative language model

Extends SQL model to support AI mdoels

## Data Governance

It improves data quality and discover, clean, integrate, and label the data

## Model Training

Train the model using in-database optimizations including model storage, model update and parallel training.

### Targets

- Feature Selectin: 
- Model Selection: Parallelly training to increase the throughoput.
- Model Management: Design model management system to track, store, and search ML models.
- Hardware acceleration

### Challenges

- In-database training:
  - How to store model to DB, such that multi-tenants train and use it in security and privacy manner.
  - How to update model when data is updated.
- Training acceleration: How to accerate the training with feature selection & sample selection.
- AI optimizer: UDF is not effectively optimized and requires embedded model inside database.

## Model Inference

Infer the results using a trained model with in-database optimizations such as operator support, selectiona nd execution acceleration.

- Operator support: How to define operators and meet the optimizations requirement
- Operator selection: 
- Execution acceleration: in-memory computation & distributed methods.

## Open questions

- How to enhance AI training inside database
- How to reduce errors with error-tolerant techniques
- How to build database-like AI optimzier.

