title: C-Store A Column-oriented DBMS
header-image: "img/postcover/post02.jpg"
categories: [A paper note]

# Data Model

## **Tables** 

=> **projections**

- contains **any number of columns** in the table, or from another table if there are relationships
- multiple projections for one table could have overlaps
- tuples in projections are stored column-wise. K columns == K data structures. All are sorted on the same sort key.

=> projection is horizontally partitioned into 1 or more **segments**

- each segment has an ID.
- each segment has multiple rows/records/tuples.
- each value of each column has a storage key. values with the same storage key belong to one logical row.
- two projections can join to form the orginal table, and join using the index (seg_id, storage Key)'

**Joins**: the problem is to determine the projections, segments, sort keys, and join indices to create the logical tables.

## ReadStore

It uses 4 compressed schema - 4 encoidngs

- **(v, f, n)** : value v first appear at f position and have continue n times. It also have clusterd B-Tree indexs in this column for efficient searching.
- **(v, b)**: values v appear in positions indicted in **bitmap** b. It also use B-Trees t map positions in a column to the values contained in that column.
- represent every value in the column as a **delta** from the previous value in the column. 
  1,4,7,7,8,12 would be represented by the sequence: 1,3,3,0,1,4. B-tree tree at the block level can be used to index these coded objects.
- values unencoded + A dense pack B-tree.

## WriteStore

Write store is also a column store and is also partitioned in the same way as RS, thus there is 1:1 mapping.

Write store **is not compressed**, each value is (v, SK). value and storage key.

Each projection uses two B-tree

- The first maintains (v, sk) pair.
- The second maintains (s, SK) pair.

During the query, it first locates sk using s, and then local v using sk.

# Storage 

It divides projecttions into segments, and assign segments to physical nodes and set some constraints for performance

- All columns in a single segment should be co-located
- WS segments and RS segments with the same key range should co-locate.

Big columns are stored in individual files.

# Transaction 

Write Store is built on top of BerkeleyDB. C-store is designed for large reads with smaller OLTP txs on few seconds. To ensure the performnace, it uses read-only transactions using snapshot isolation (don't need to set any locks), while the update tx use two-phase locking and set read/write locks.

### Snapshot isolation

**Snapshot isolation works by allowing read-only transactions to access the database as of some time in the recent past, before which we can guarantee that there are no uncommitted transactions.**

Read only transaction can effectivly run between period (Low water mark - High water mark)

The key problem in snapshot isolation is determining which of the records in WS and RS should be visible to a read-only transaction running at **effective time ET**. Any records inserted bebefore ET and delete after ET is visiable to read-only query.

- Update cannot happens in-place => convert ot insert and delete, each with insert and delete timestamp per-projection.
- Reduce the timestamp assignment overhead, it uses epoch to assign timestamps.
- Reduce the timesatmps management overhead, it ensure no records in RS were instered after 
- It uses a timestamp authority to periodically assign timestamp to each site in 2pc manner.
- read-only query reads from the most recent time related epoch.

### Concurrency Control

It uses 2pl and 2pc.  To prevent the deadlock, it uses timeout machinism.

# Tuple Mover

The read-store have a LWM and HWM, duirng the moving data from WS to RS. It finds all records inserted timestamp is at or before the LWM.

- If their delete timestamp is at or before the LWM also, them don't move them to RS.
- If their delete timestamp is after LWM, then move them to RS, such that read query could see it.



