---
title: Deploying a Steered Query Optimizer in Production at Microsoft
header-image: "img/postcover/post02.jpg"
categories: [A paper note]
layout: post
---

# Introduction

General query optimizer is far from optimal for a given customer and workloads, learned query optimizer works but 

1. hard to understand why it is better.
2. high experimentation costs/pre-production cost (collecting training data)
3. regression to newer queries.

This paper makes steering actions more **manageable**, **keeping the costs of steering within budget**, and avoiding unexpected performance regressions in production.

1. Key idea: breaking down the steering process into smaller incremental steps that are easily explainable and reversible.
2. Use **contextual bandit model** to redue the pre-production cost.
3. Use **validation model** to accept or reject the suggested modifications to query plan.

# Design

The paper propose QO-Advisor, which is recurrently triggered every day. It accepts historical metadata and return a list of job template identifiers and rule hint pairs.

Contextual Bandit => suggest one rule hint for each job.

1. Actions: rules. Context: features of query. Reward: optimizer’s estimated cost change.
2. It uses a tool named as Azure Personalizer to implement.

Flighting:

1. Execute job from low cost to high cost and outputs total DataRead and DataWritten features.

Validation model => detect regression.

1. It use a linear regression model to predict the PNhours delta based on DataRead and DataWritten features given job, and only when PNhours delta is below a predefined threshold, it is safe to execute.
2. Intuition: If job reads and writes less data, PNhours will be reduced.

