---
title: Neo: A Learned Query Optimizer
header-image: "img/postcover/post02.jpg"
categories: [A paper note]
layout: post
---

# Insights

Retrain every N second to update the model

The whole process follows RL, and the expliotation and exploration is balanced via **plan search procedure**

# Introduction

This paper proposes Neo, which can learn (based on RL) to make decisions about **join order, operator, and index.**

Challenges:

1. Use value network to automatically capture intuitive patterns.
2. Feature the query
3. overcame reinforcement learning’s **infamous sample inefficiency** by using a technique known as **learning from demonstration.**
   1. **Sample inefficiency** arises when an agent requires a large number of interactions (samples) with the environment to learn an effective policy, making the learning process slow and resource-intensive.

# System Overview

Two phases:

- initial phase: expertise is collected from an expert optimizer
  - Collect (query, plan, time)
  - Train a Value Network (TCNN), which predicts the execution time of a partial or complete plan.
    - Feature: query level  (join graph) + plan level (join order) information.
- Running phase: queries are executed.
  - Given a query, it uses the value model to search for the best plan (with **join order selection, join operators, and indexes**.)
- Model Retraining:

Query optimization as a Markov decision process (MDP).

- State: partial query plan.
- Action: a step in building a query plan in a bottom-up fashion.
- Reward: latency.

## Query encoding.

Plan encoder + Query encoder.

- Query encoder introduce the row vector, which map each row into a vector like a sentence. in NLP.

TCNN to predict the latency of each execution plan.

min-heap to help the searching process, from the partial plan all the way to the full query plan.

# Exps

both synthetic and realworld datasets

JOB, TPC-H, Corp
