---
title: CS234 reinforcement learning
header-image: "img/postcover/post02.jpg"
categories: [A paper note]
layout: post
---

### Markov Assumption

future is independent of the past given the present

Markov Process/Chain

- sequence of random states with Markov property
- no actions, rewards, only have transition model P(s_(t+1)|s_t)

Markov Reward Process

- markov chian + rewards
- no actions, transition model P(s_(t+1)|s_t)
- reward function R(s_t).
- has defined **return and value functions**, 
  Return = sum of reward from time step t to the horizon. 
  Value function = expected **return** from state s.

Markov Decision Process (S, A, P, R, \gama)

- Markov reward process + actions

- Definition:

  - Transition model P(s_(t+1)|s_t, **a_t**)
  - Reward function R(s_t, **a_t**) 

- Policy:

  - what actions to take at each state
  - can be deterministic or stochastic
  - like conditional distribution, pi(a|s) = P(a|s)

- MDP Policy Evaluation, Iterative Algorithm.

  - V=0 for all states s

  - for k=1 to converge, and for each state, calculate 
    $$
    V_k^\pi(s) = r(s, \pi(s)) + r\sum p(s'|s, \pi(s)) V_{k-1}^\pi(s')
    $$
    This is **Bellman's backup** for a policy.

    and the optimal policy is 
    $$
    \pi^*(s)=argmaxV^\pi(s)
    $$

- Policy iteration is efficient in **guessing** the optimal policy.

  - define the **Q function to measure** state-action value, and measure the improvement of a policy.
    $$
    Q^\pi(s, a) = R(s, a) + r\sum p(s'|s, a) V^\pi(s')
    $$

  - for all s and a, we compute the Q function, and then the new policy should be 
    $$
    \pi_{i+1}(s) = argmax_aQ^\pi_i(s, a)
    $$
    This is to find a such that the Q is max.

  - **Monotonic improvement** in policy, the new policy is always better. (there is proof at this [Link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E3f2Camj0Is&list=PLoROMvodv4rOSOPzutgyCTapiGlY2Nd8u&index=2&ab_channel=StanfordOnline))

- Value iteration is another way to compute it.

  - maintain the optimal value of starting in a state.
  - Bellman Equation, and Bellman Backup operators.

### RL Algorithm Components

**Model**: representation of how the world changes in response to agent's action.

- Transition model: predict next agent state, s_t + a_t => s_(t+1)
- Reward model: predict immediate rewards, r(s_t, a_t)

**Policy**: function mapping agent's stats to action. S -> A,

- Determinsitc policy: pi(s) = a
- Stochastic policy: pi(a|s) = Pr(a_t = a|s_t = s)

**Value Function**: **future** rewards from being in a stats and action when following a policy

- V(s_t) = E(r_t + r_(t+1) + r_(t+2)...|s_t)
- quantify goodness/badness of states and actions.



### **RL agent:**

Model-based/Model-free: the difference is whether they can model the environment。

 

### Model-Free

**Monte Carlo Policy Evaluation:** Policy evaluation when we don't have dynamics and reward model.

- no bootstrapping
- does not assume state is Markov
- Can only be applied to episodic MPDs.









### 











