The Chubby lock service for loosely-coupled distributed systems

# Introduction

Chubby `lock service` is intended to provide coarse-grained locking as well as reliable storage for a loosely-coupled distributed system. Chubby lock service mainly helps deal with coarse-grained synchronization, eg, electing a leader. 

- GFS uses it to appoint a GFS master server. 
- BigTable uses it to elect a master, to allow the master to discover servers it controls and to permit clients to find the master

It emphasizes `availability and reliability`, but not high-performance including throughput or storage capacity.

This paper shows the design and implementation of the Chubby lock service

# Design

## Rationale

**Compatibility**

Normally a system starts from a prototype with loose availability guarantees.

=> Service is mature, availability becomes important, replication and primary election are needed.

=> Add a replication library that provides distributed consensus and the lock server makes it easy to maintain the original system. 

This transition is convenient.

**Other functionality**

Lock server can also act as a name server.

Chubby’s success as a name server owes much to its use of consistent client caching, rather than time-based caching.



## System structure

### Files, directories, and handles

## Locks and sequencers

## Events

## API

## Caching

## Sessions and KeepAlives

## Fail-Overs

## Database Implementation

## Backup

## Mirroring



# Mechanism for scaling

# Use and design

# Comparison 

# Summary

# 

# 

